Access node different configuration options (#804)
onflow/docs: docs/networks/node-ops/access-onchain-data/access-nodes/access-node-configuration-options.md

```bash
gsutil -m cp "gs://flow-genesis-bootstrap/[network]-execution/public-root-information/root.checkpoint*" .
```

Once the files are downloaded, you can either move them to `/bootstrap/execution-state/` within the node’s bootstrap directory or put them in any mounted directory and reference the location with this cli flag: `--execution-state-checkpoint=/path/to/root.checkpoint`. The naming of files should be `root.checkpoint.*`.

## **Option 2: Enabling Indexing Mid-Spork**

### Download the root protocol state snapshot

You can download the `root-protocol-state-snapshot.json` file by using the `GetProtocolStateSnapshotByHeight` call with the corresponding height. You will get a `base64` encoded snapshot which you will need to decode.

Store the **`root-protocol-state-snapshot.json`** into the **`/bootstrap/public-root-information/`** folder.

### Download the root checkpoint

> You will need to download checkpoint files for the corresponding height which is the same as was for downloading the root protocol state snapshot. This is important cause in other cases you will get the error described in the Troubleshooting section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You will need to download checkpoint files for the corresponding height which is the same as was for downloading the root protocol state snapshot. This is important cause in other cases you will get the error described in the [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> Please contact the Flow Foundation team for the checkpoint files.

```

> # Access node operator documentation

Reviewer: The doc site pages need this additional header to ensure that the side bard displays exactly what we want - 
https://github.com/onflow/docs/blob/main/docs/networks/node-ops/access-onchain-data/access-nodes/access-node-setup.md?plain=1#L1-L5

# Overview

This page serves as a resource for the different configuration options for Access nodes on the Flow network.

<aside>
⚠️ Nodes MUST be running `v0.32.10+` or newer to enable execution data indexing.

</aside>

# Setup node’s directory

The node requires the following directory structure:

```bash
$ tree flow_access
	flow_access/
	├── bootstrap
	│	├── private-root-information (with corresponding AN data)
	│	└── execution-state
	│	└── public-root-information
	│		├── node-id
	│		└── node-info.pub.NODE_ID.json
	│		└── root-protocol-state-snapshot.json (the genesis data)
	└── data (directory used by the node to store block data)
	│	└── execution-data
	│	└── execution-state

```

# Setup Data Indexing

> First, your node needs to download and index the execution data. There are 3 steps:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To setup indexing, your node needs to download and index the execution data. There are 3 steps:
```

1. Enable Execution Data Sync
2. Download the root checkpoint file

> 3. Configure the node to run the indexer

Reviewer 2: The last missing step I forgot wasn't included:
`4. Use the indexed data in the Access API`. Let's add that in a follow up PR

As of **`mainnet24`** / **`devnet49`**, Access nodes can be configured to index execution data to support local script execution, and serving all of the Access API endpoints using local data. There are different setup procedures depending on if you are enabling indexing immediately after a network upgrade, or at some point between upgrades.

# Enable Execution Data Sync

This is enabled by default, so as long as you didn’t explicitly disable it, the data should already be available.

1. Make sure that either `--execution-data-sync-enabled` is not set, or is set to `true`
2. Make sure that you have a path configured for `--execution-data-dir`, otherwise the data will be written to the running user’s home directory, which is most likely inside the container’s volume. For example, you can create a folder within the node’s data directory  `/data/execution-data/`.

> There are some additional flags available, but you most likely do not need to change them.

Reviewer 2: let's add a link
```suggestion
There are some additional [flags](#execution-data-sync) available, but you most likely do not need to change them.
```

## **Option 1: Enabling Indexing at the Beginning of a Spork**

### Download the root protocol state snapshot

> The `root-protocol-state-snapshot.json` is generated for each [spork](https://developers.flow.com/networks/node-ops/node-operation/spork) and contains the genesis data for that spork. It is published and made available after each spork. The download location is specified [here](https://github.com/onflow/flow/blob/master/sporks.json) under [rootProtocolStateSnapshot](https://github.com/onflow/flow/blob/master/sporks.json#L16).

Reviewer 2: we're moving away from the term `spork` to `network upgrade`
```suggestion
The `root-protocol-state-snapshot.json` is generated for each [network](https://developers.flow.com/networks/node-ops/node-operation/spork) and contains the genesis data for that network. It is published and made available after each upgrade. The download location is specified [here](https://github.com/onflow/flow/blob/master/sporks.json) under [rootProtocolStateSnapshot](https://github.com/onflow/flow/blob/master/sporks.json#L16).
```

[https://github.com/onflow/flow/blob/52ee94b830c2d413f0e86c1e346154f84c2643a4/sporks.json#L15](https://github.com/onflow/flow/blob/52ee94b830c2d413f0e86c1e346154f84c2643a4/sporks.json#L15)

The URL in that file will point to a file named `root.checkpoint`. This is the base file and is fairly small. There are 17 additional files that make up the actual data, named `root.checkpoint.000`, `root.checkpoint.001`, …, `root.checkpoint.016`. If you have `gsutil` installed, you can download them all easily with the following command.

```bash
gsutil -m cp "gs://flow-genesis-bootstrap/[network]-execution/public-root-information/root.checkpoint*" .
```

Once the files are downloaded, you can either move them to `/bootstrap/execution-state/` within the node’s bootstrap directory or put them in any mounted directory and reference the location with this cli flag: `--execution-state-checkpoint=/path/to/root.checkpoint`. The naming of files should be `root.checkpoint.*`.

## **Option 2: Enabling Indexing Mid-Spork**

### Download the root protocol state snapshot

> You can download  `root-protocol-state-snapshot.json`  file by using the `GetProtocolStateSnapshotByHeight` call with the corresponding height. You will get a `base64` encoded snapshot which you will need to decode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can download the `root-protocol-state-snapshot.json` file by using the `GetProtocolStateSnapshotByHeight` call with the corresponding height. You will get a `base64` encoded snapshot which you will need to decode.
```

### Download the root protocol state snapshot

You can download  `root-protocol-state-snapshot.json`  file by using the `GetProtocolStateSnapshotByHeight` call with the corresponding height. You will get a `base64` encoded snapshot which you will need to decode.

Store the **`root-protocol-state-snapshot.json`** into the **`/bootstrap/public-root-information/`** folder.

### Download the root checkpoint

You will need to download checkpoint files for the corresponding height which is the same as was for downloading the root protocol state snapshot. This is important cause in other cases you will get the error described in the Troubleshooting section.

> Once the files are downloaded, you can either move them to `/bootstrap/execution-state/` within the node’s bootstrap directory or put them in any mounted directory and reference the location with this cli flag: `--execution-state-checkpoint=/path/to/root.checkpoint`. The naming of files should be `root.checkpoint.*`.

Reviewer: we will have to setup a bucket similar to the current `mainnet-x-execution` buckets we have for mainnet spork.
I will have to work with JP to get a process in place to have these published on some cadence.

> Once the files are downloaded, you can either move them to `/bootstrap/execution-state/` within the node’s bootstrap directory or put them in any mounted directory and reference the location with this cli flag: `--execution-state-checkpoint=/path/to/root.checkpoint`. The naming of files should be `root.checkpoint.*`.

Reviewer: is it ok, if I tackle that after the network upgrade?

# Configure the node to run the indexer

Now you have the execution sync setup and the root checkpoint in place, it’s time to configure the node to index all of the data so it can be used for script execution.

There are 2 cli flags that you will need to add:

- `--execution-data-indexing-enabled=true` This will enable the indexer.
- `--execution-state-dir` This defines the path where the registers db will be stored. A good default is on the same drive as the protocol db. e.g. `/data/execution-state`

# Start your node

Now that all of the settings to enable indexing are in place, you can start your node.

> To run node except of regular flags you need to add next flags:
> 
> `--execution-data-indexing-enabled=true`
> 
> `--execution-state-dir=/data/execution-state`
> 
> `--execution-data-sync-enabled=true`
> 
> `--execution-data-dir=/data/execution-data`

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
At a minimum, you will need the following flags:

```
--execution-data-indexing-enabled=true
--execution-state-dir=/data/execution-state
--execution-data-sync-enabled=true
--execution-data-dir=/data/execution-data
```
````

For better visibility of the process, you can also add

> `-p 8080:8080` - export port 8080 so you could inspect the metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`-p 8080:8080` - export port 8080 from your docker container so you could inspect the metrics
```

`--loglevel=info` - for checking logs.

Notes on what to expect:

> - On startup, the node will load the checkpoint into the `execution-state` db. For `devnet48`, this takes 20-30 min depending on the node’s specs. For `mainnet24`, it takes >45 min. You can follow the process by grepping your logs for `register_bootstrap`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- On startup, the node will load the checkpoint into the `execution-state` db. For `devnet48`, this takes 20-30 min depending on the node’s specs. For `mainnet24`, it takes >45 min. The loading time will increase over time. You can follow along with the process by grepping your logs for `register_bootstrap`.
```

# Troubleshooting

- If the root checkpoint file is missing or invalid, the node will crash. It must be taken from the same block as the `root-protocol-state-snapshot.json` used to start your node.

> - If you don’t set one the `--execution-data-dir` and `--execution-state-dir` flags, the data will be written to the home directory inside the container (likely `/root`). This may cause your container to run out of disk space and crash, or lose all data each time the container is restarted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you don’t set the `--execution-data-dir` and `--execution-state-dir` flags, the data will be written to the home directory inside the container (likely `/root`). This may cause your container to run out of disk space and crash, or lose all data each time the container is restarted.
```

# Troubleshooting

- If the root checkpoint file is missing or invalid, the node will crash. It must be taken from the same block as the `root-protocol-state-snapshot.json` used to start your node.

> - If you don’t set one of the `--execution-data-dir` or `--execution-state-dir` flags, the data will be written to the home directory inside the container (likely `/root`). This may cause your container to run out of disk space and crash, or lose all data each time the container is restarted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If you don’t set the `--execution-data-dir` and `--execution-state-dir` flags, the data will be written to the home directory inside the container (likely `/root`). This may cause your container to run out of disk space and crash, or lose all data each time the container is restarted.
```

{
  "level":"error",
  ...
  "module":"execution_indexer",
  "sub_module":"job_queue",
  "error":"could not query processable jobs: could not read job at index 75792641, failed to get execution data for height 75792641: blob QmSZRu2SHN32d9SCkz9KXEtX3M3PozhzksMuYgNdMgmBwH not found",
  "message":"failed to check processables"
}
```

- You can check if the execution sync and index heights are increasing by querying the metrics endpoint:
    ```

>     curl localhost:8080/metrics | grep highest_download_height

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    curl -s localhost:8080/metrics | grep highest_download_height
```

> - You can check if the execution sync height is increasing by command: `curl localhost:8080/metrics | grep highest_download_height`. To check indexed height: `curl -s localhost:8080/metrics | grep highest_indexed_height`.

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion
- You can check if the execution sync and index heights are increasing by querying the metrics endpoint:
    ```
    curl localhost:8080/metrics | grep highest_download_height
    curl -s localhost:8080/metrics | grep highest_indexed_height
    ```
````

| script-execution-max-error-length | int | Maximum number characters to include in error message strings. additional characters are truncated. Default: 1000 |
| script-execution-log-time-threshold | duration | Emit a log for any scripts that take over this threshold. Default: 1s |
| script-execution-timeout | duration | The timeout value for locally executed scripts. Default: 10s |
| script-execution-min-height | uint64 | Lowest block height to allow for script execution. Default: no limit |
| script-execution-max-height | uint64 | Highest block height to allow for script execution. default: no limit |
| register-cache-type | string | Type of backend cache to use for registers [lru, arc, 2q] |
| register-cache-size | uint | Number of registers to cache for script execution. Default: 0 (no cache) |
| program-cache-size | uint | [experimental] number of blocks to cache for cadence programs. use 0 to disable cache. Default: 0. Note: this is an experimental feature and may cause nodes to become unstable under certain workloads. Use with caution. |

# API Configuration

> The `ExecutionDataAPI` is a gRPC API. The protobuf definition is here:
> 
> [](https://github.com/onflow/flow/blob/master/protobuf/flow/executiondata/executiondata.proto)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `ExecutionDataAPI` is a gRPC API. The protobuf definition is [here](https://github.com/onflow/flow/blob/master/protobuf/flow/executiondata/executiondata.proto).
```

The API is disabled by default. To enable it, specify a listener address with the cli flag `--state-stream-addr`.

> <aside>
> ℹ️ Currently, the api must be started on a separate port from the regular gRPC endpoint. There is work underway to add support for using the same port.
> 
> </aside>

Reviewer 2: this is no longer true
```suggestion
```

```

> # Setup execution data indexing

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# Setup Execution Data Indexing
```
